---
id: metachromium-overview
title: Metachromium Overview
---

[Metachromium](https://metachromium.com/) is a spatial app browser that runs side-by side with OpenVR (SteamVR). It lets you open any WebXR page as a spatial overlay app that runs on top of any other VR game.

## Features

- Run WebXR context on top of an OpenVR application
- Run multiple WebXR applications inside a single Metachromium context
- Volumetric streaming capabilities

## Using Metachromium

### Prerequisites

- OpenVR compatible XR Device (for best experience)
- At least 1GB of storage

### Running

1. Install Metachromium through [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/685110/Metachromium/). If you need an early-access key, get one [here](https://metachromium.com/).
2. Run your SteamVR application.
3. Run Metachromium and choose an app you would like to overlay.
4. Enjoy!

## How it Works

Metachromium is a modified version of the open source Google Chromium browser. The primary change made by Metachromium is to allow WebXR scenes to be overlaid onto existing (potentially) non-WebXR content. This allows you to use the features XRPackage alongside your existing OpenVR compatible games, apps, and experiences.

### Rendering Content

For different WebXR contexts to be overlaid inside an OpenVR application, special math must be done so the outlines of these different applications blend into the world correctly in terms of its alpha (opacity). Metachromium does the blending such that the renderings appear as though they are in the correct space when viewed through the headset.

More specifically, Metachromium is capturing a 360 stereoscopic view from the WebXR frame buffer and then mapping that view to a transparent sphere that surrounds the user. By drawing the correct pixels in the correct place on the sphere and tracking the headset at 144hz, the user has virtually no idea that the content being overlaid is from a different application.

### Using XRPackages

One of the caveats with overlaying WebXR objects is that all WebXR content appears as though it's overlaid on top of the native app, instead of appearing as though it were native to the application. This is one of the main reasons why using XRPackages is preferred, as a `.wbn` generated by XRPackage contains the correct depth rendering information needed for a more immersive rendering.

### Further Reading

To learn more about how to develop your own content for Metachromium, follow our simple [developer guides](xrpackage-overview.md)! Other useful links to learning more about the Webaverse, XRPackage, and XR development can be found below:

- [`Getting Started With Webaverse`](getting-started.md)
- [`MetaRTC Overview`](metartc-overview.md)
